# PQKryvos

This project implements the Ligero proofs used for our paper **"PQKryvos: Post-Quantum Secure E-Voting With Flexible Ballot Formats and Public Tally-Hiding"**, via circom circuits for computing BDLOP commitments, and/or ensuring ballot validity, and/or ensuring correct result computation. It uses libiop for generating Ligero proofs based on these circuits.  
We provide everything needed to compile circuits, generate witnesses, and run proofs in a reproducible Docker environment.

Precompiled circuit instantiations are hosted externally and must be downloaded separately:

**Precompiled circuits:**
https://mega.nz/folder/WqIXBBDY#kJomxXYf2HjKzL7Vjlu2tQ

These artifacts are optional for compilation but recommended for reproducing the experiments reported in the paper.

---

## Directory Structure

### `circom/`
- **`helper_scripts/`**: Scripts for  
  - Compiling `.circom` files to R1CS (**Note:** Depending on the circuit, compiling to R1CS can be highly time- and/or memory-consuming. For testing purposes, we provide precompiled circuits in the corresponding directory.)
  - Generating input skeleton files from circuits (to be filled out manually according to the desired input)
  - Computing witnesses using circom witness generation and prepared inputs
  - Patching commitment computation circuits with new commitment keys
- **`circuits/`**: Raw, uninstantiated circuit definitions. Modify or compile these as needed.

### `precompiled_circuits/`
- This directory is intended to contain precompiled circuit instantiations. They are not included in this repository due to size limitations. Each precompiled circuit directory contains:
  - R1CS constraints (in JSON formats)  
  - Matching input files  
  - Corresponding witness files  
  - Compilation logs
- **Note:** Precompiled circuits can be very large. It is recommended to **mount at runtime** rather than copying the directory into Docker images and/or including only the concrete circuit needed.

### `libiop/`
- The **libiop library** for Ligero proofs, including:  
  - Custom Goldilocks field implementation  
  - Patches for creating Ligero proofs from Circom-generated R1CS, witness and compilation logs.  
- Contains the main binaries `ligero` (for proving over Goldilocks) and `ligero_BN254`(for proving over BN254).

### `main_scripts/`
- Wrapper scripts for orchestrating typical workflows:  
  - Circuit compilation  
  - Witness generation  
  - Ligero proof computation and verification

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- **Docker** (v20+ recommended)  
- Enough **free disk space** if using the whole `precompiled_circuits` (alternatively, just download the precompiled circuit desired)

Optional: Circom, snarkjs, Node and Python installed locally for running scripts outside Docker.

---

### 1. Build the Docker Image
From the project root:

```bash
docker build -t pq-kryvos-container .
```

### 2. Run the Container

To compute/verify a proof, run the container over a directory PATH that contains (subdirectories that each contain)
- a JSON file containing the R1CS, as created by circom with the option --json
- a circom log file specifying the number of public/private in-/outputs
- a JSON file containing the satisfying witness vector for the R1CS,

by running 

```bash
$ docker run --rm -it -v PATH:/app/precompiled_circuits pq-kryvos-container
```

All circuits in precompiled_circuits come with these three files for your convenience, but a fresh witness can be generated by adapting the respective input files and running the witness generation script found in `circom/helper_scripts/witness_generation`. To start, we recommend using the precompiled circuits with precomputed witnesses. When using custom circuits, we recommend using the R1CS generation script found in `circom/helper_scripts/r1cs_generation/`, as it takes care of generating the correct files. See the circom directory for further instructions.

### 3. Compute Ligero Proofs over Goldilocks and BN254

To compute Ligero proofs for the precompiled circuits in ./precompiled_circuits/ run:

```bash
$ docker run --rm -it -v ./precompiled_circuits/:/app/precompiled_circuits pq-kryvos-container
```

Then, inside the container, prove the satisfiability of the circuit over Goldilocks by running

```bash 
$./ligero [constraints.json] [compilation.log] [witness.json]
```

Prove the satisfiability of the circuit over BN254 (with del Pino parameters) by running

```bash 
$./ligero_BN254 [constraints.json] [compilation.log] [witness.json]
```

#### Runtime Output

When generating a proof, you will see:
- Information about the R1CS
- Ligero parameters used in libiop, including:
  - Hash function
  - Hash length
  - Achieved security parameter
- Benchmarks for proving and verification times

Verification is automatically triggered on the freshly generated proof.

### 4. Example Circuits

We use some examples from `precompiled_circuits` that illustrate how to use Ligero for computing proofs. The example commands below assume that PATH is the specified directory from `precompiled_circuits`:

#### 4.1. Proving Knowledge of an Opening of a BDLOP commitment

Over Goldilocks: (`precompiled_circuits/ballotvalidity/goldilocks/Commitment/`)

```bash  
$ ./ligero precompiled_circuits/goldilocks_N486_n6_constraints.json precompiled_circuits/goldilocks_N486_n6.log precompiled_circuits/witness.json
```

Over BN254: (`precompiled_circuits/ballotvalidity/delPino/Commitment/`)

```bash  
$ ./ligero_BN254 precompiled_circuits/delPino_N256_n7_constraints.json precompiled_circuits/delPino_N256_n7.log precompiled_circuits/witness.json
```

#### 4.2. Proving Ballot Validity of a BDLOP-committed ballot (over Goldilocks)

Single-Vote with 480 candidates: (`precompiled_circuits/ballotvalidity/goldilocks/SingleVote/bitsVotes1nVotes480/`)

```bash  
$ ./ligero precompiled_circuits/singleVoteComplete_bitsVotes1_nVotes480_constraints.json precompiled_circuits/singleVoteComplete_bitsVotes1_nVotes480.log precompiled_circuits/witness.json
```

Pointlist Borda with 200 candidates: (`precompiled_circuits/ballotvalidity/goldilocks/PointlistBorda/bitsVotes32nVotes200nPoints200orderedPoints2001991/`)

```bash  
$ ./ligero precompiled_circuits/pointlistBordaComplete_bitsVotes32_nVotes200_nPoints200_orderedPointslist200_782862e8_constraints.json precompiled_circuits/pointlistBordaComplete_bitsVotes32_nVotes200_nPoints200_orderedPointslist200_782862e8.log precompiled_circuits/witness.json
```

#### 4.3. Proving Correct Result Computation from aggregated BDLOP-committed ballots (over Goldilocks)

Set of candidate(s) from a total of 100 candidates who received the most votes: (`precompiled_circuits/tallying/goldilocks/MostVotes/bits32nVotes100/`)

```bash  
$ ./ligero precompiled_circuits/most_votes_bits32_nVotes100_constraints.json precompiled_circuits/most_votes_bits32_nVotes100.log precompiled_circuits/witness.json
```

#### 4.4 Proving a Linear Relation between BDLOP-commited values (over Goldilocks)

Proving that C1,C2 are BDLOP commitments to x_1 resp. x_2 such that ax_1+bx_2 = 0 for public polynomials a,b: (`/precompiled_circuits/linearRelations/`)

```bash  
$ ./ligero precompiled_circuits/linearRelationTest_constraints.json precompiled_circuits/linearRelationTest.log precompiled_circuits/witness.json
```

### Troubleshooting

Common causes of errors:

1. **Incorrect Ligero binary**
   - Use `./ligero` for Goldilocks proofs and `./ligero_BN254` for BN254 proofs.  
   - Mixing binaries will typically cause failures.

2. **Incorrect input order**
   - Inputs must always be provided in the order: **Constraints,Log,Witness**.
